Hello okay so we were digging into
a HTML document in JavaScript.
So we were on this Tic Tac Toe page and
we had shown that in the Inspector
tab in our browsers dev tools we can
get a sense of what is in that page.
So in here and yours might look a little
bit different both the JavaScript console
and the Inspector might look slightly
different in different browsers.
For example, I'm in Firefox right here.
You might be in Chrome or Edge or
another different browsers, or Safari,
and the dev tools in all of these
browsers are slightly different.
But the contents of the page and
the objects that JavaScript sees and
represents the page width
should be the same.
So let's dig in a little bit, in
the inspector, we can do drill down into
different elements and we can kinda get
a sense of what all is in this page.
We've got some header h1, h2 elements,
we've got some of those container divs,
some paragraphs, etc.
Then, we've got a div
with some other divs.
So just getting familiarized with
building our human mental model of
what's in this page.
What we're gonna do now is show how
if we go back to the console and
we work with this document object,
which we can invoke or
kinda call-up by entering
the word document in the console.
We're going to be able to see
how JavaScript represents these
same elements and the same content in
the page in its own own JavaScript anyway.
So let's dig in.
Okay, so
we saw that the the document word by
itself is kinda a special built in object.
We're gonna talk about objects later.
But it's a built in object in JavaScript
that represents the whole document.
So that is the entire HTML
document that we are working with.
Any guesses what
document.title represents?
>> The title of the document.
>> The title of the document, excellent.
So this is the page title,
if you want to try it out.
So in this document or in this web page,
you'll notice that the in
the browser tab or on the title bar
of the browser, you'll see a title
that you can access that JavaScriptTacToe
title with document.title.
And we're gonna talk
more about this dot and
what is going on with these dots later.
But this is how we can get
the title of the document.
What about document.body?
[LAUGH] This is perhaps unsurprisingly,
the body element in the HTML.
So if we notice in our inspector,
we have all of the content that
we really care about is usually
contained within this body element.
There's also a head element that has
some other things, like for example,
the document title.
And so document.title is just kind of like
a nice little quick way of accessing that.
But usually what mostly we're gonna be
concerned about is what's in the body of
the page.
So what is contained
within this body element
which we can access by
typing document.body.
And again, this might look slightly
different depending on your browser,
but that will also give you a body
element which has a bunch of stuff in it.
We're not going to worry
too much about right now.
We can also use a special kind
of addon to a lot of the things
we're gonna be working with
today called .children.
Any guesses what
document.body.children would give us?
Or perhaps review for folks who have
encountered the DOM before in JavaScript,
>> The header in the divs.
>> So in this case, the header and
divs that we drew out before in our tree,
thank you [LAUGH] and in different
documents that might look different.
So depending on what you have
in your particular page,
document.body.children is going
to return some group of elements.
In this case,
it's something called an HTML collection
that has some other stuff inside of it.
And we can sort of get a sense here
that there's like a header in there.
There's this div with an ID
called board in there.
And this is gonna be different on
different web pages, but in our page,
which we looked at before, we had
a header and a div inside of the body,
that is what we're gonna turn up here,
great.
So, this is going to be all the elements
contained within, in this case, the body.
And as we're gonna see later, we can use
.children on other elements to find out
what else they have inside of them.
So this is how we can kinda
drill down into the DOM tree.
Okay, what about this one,
document.getelEmentById(board)?
What do you think this is gonna give us?
>> Is it the div that you created earlier?
>> The div that we created, well,
we all ready had it kind of,
it was all ready there in the page.
But yes we have a div in our page that
has this attribute Id equals board.
In this case represents this
little tic tac toe game board.
But you might be working with all
kinds of different HTML elements here.
And often, assigning an Id to an element
is a really great way to say,
hey, this element is special and
I want to be able to refer to it
by an individual indicator an Id,
an identifier that picks out
only this element in the page.
So Ids are supposed to be
unique to a single element.
You ideally shouldn't have in your
HTML document multiple elements
with the Id attribute
set to the same value.
So in this case, so document,
sorry, just to make this
a little bit easier to read here,
there's a fun little thing
I can type in clear to reset kind
of clear out all of the history.
So clear with two parentheses like that.
We'll wipe out whatever
stuff I saw before.
And so now if I enter
document.getElementById, and
notice the capitalization
here that is important.
So capital E, capital B capital I,
and then pass in the name or the Id,
sorry, of a particular element that
will return whatever element that is.
In this case, it's a div.
In some other case,
it might be some other element, P for
a paragraph for, an H1 or
whatever other element you want.
So get element by Id is a really useful
way to pick out a particular element,
an individual element from the page.
So, if for whatever reason, you have two
elements with the same id, which again,
you really shouldn't, but maybe somebody
else wrote the page and it's their fault.
In this case, it'll give you the first
one it finds, that has that Id.
But usually id's should be unique, so
it should give you the one
element with this Id.
And there is another handy little
invocation I can use to essentially use
CSS selector syntax to pick out
certain elements of the page.
So for example, the selector for an id is
this kind of hash, the number pound sign.
So if I use a spell called
query selector in JavaScript
document.querySelector, I
can enter in a CSS selector
like #board to indicate I want
the element with the Id of board.
So let's go back to our console here and
try that out.
And it's going to pick out
the same element as get
element by Id with just
the Id no hash returns.
So these are equivalent.
Cool, questions so far?
Excellent, all right, so, sometimes we
want to pick out elements differently.
Sometimes maybe we don't have an Id or we
wanna choose an element of a certain kind.
So a certain type of element or
a certain tag for elements.
So we also have the option
get elements by TagName.
In this case, if I were to run
get element by TagName h1,
what do you think this would
return on our Tic Tac Toe page?
What would this pick out of the DOM?
>> First header.
>> In this case, what what is that
header just in our page here?
>> Tic Tac Toe,
>> Tic Tac Toe, yes, so
we have this h1 element that has
the text Tic Tac Toe inside of it.
And if I type document
get elements by tag name,
there's only one h1 element in the page.
So when I, sorry,
get elements by tag name h1,
I'm actually going to get
a collection cuz there might be
multiple h1s in the page, but
in this case, this collection.
If you'll notice it just has one h1
in it and it says its length is 1,
cuz there's only one h1
element in this page.
On a different page,
you might maybe have multiple h1 elements.
Probably not because h1 should sort of
be the major thing stylistically but
it's possible you'd have multiple
elements with the same tag.
So this is going to pick out
all of the h1 elements and
what if we were trying
to use that CSS version?
What if we were trying to
use document query selector?
What would be the CSS for this,
does anybody know how we could pick out
all of the h1 elements in a page and
with a CSS selector?
It's a little bit of a trick question,
cuz it's the same.
[LAUGH] So in CSS, when we just type the
name of an element, that would select, or
sorry, the tag of an element,
in this case,
h1 that would select the h1 elements.
And so in this case, unlike with the Id,
where we only expect there to be one
element with that particular Id,
we might have multiple elements
matching this this query selector.
In this case, it's the h1 element
is what we're trying to select.
And so, that's where instead of query
selector as we use for the Id example,
we can use the spell,
document.query selector all to collect
all of the objects of the elements of
a particular tag type in the page.
So this is kind of equivalent
to get elements by tag name.
And as we're talking through
this feel free to play around,
try out different selectors,
try out different tag names.
Just another way we can select things is
by the class that is assigned to them.
So in HTML we have the concept
of a class attribute.
Oops, so for example,
in our header here we have
a p element inside of a div
with a class of player.
And that's going to represent like in this
case it's just a little descriptor showing
that I am the player assigned to
the letter x in our Tic Tac Toe game.
And if I wanna pick out elements
with a particular class,
I have this spell get
elements by class name.
Does what it says on the tin as they say.
So this is going to pick out all
the elements with that particular class.
And we can prove that if you
don't believe me, I can show you.
So if we do
document.getElementsByClassName player,
I get a couple of player elements because
I have a player x is p1 and a player O p2.
Mark and I are playing tic tac
toe in this example [LAUGH].
Okay, we said previously
that we had a similar
spell we could use called
queryselectorall and
look at my browser being so helpful.
That we said we could do like for example,
we could get all of the h1
elements by doing that.
Any idea what selector what CSS selector
we could use to get all of the elements
with the class player, so the equivalent
to get elements by class name?
>> ElementsByClassname.
>> So we can use the same method that we
used before so this query selector all.
We can use, the question is,
what do we pass in instead of that h1,
what do we pass into select or
earlier we use the singular query selector
with #board to get
the element with Id board.
We use query selector all with
h1 to get the h1 elements.
And to get all the elements of the
particular class we can use, yeah, Chan?
>> They're share the same .player.
>> Exactly, we can use the CSS selector
for a particular class is a dot, and
then the name of the class.
So this is just a little CSS
fun that we're having here.
The point is that we can use the same
way that we in CSS interact with
different types of elements in the page.
We can use that in JavaScript.
So if you're comfortable with CSS,
you've got a leg up.
And if not, if you'd rather spell it
out what you're doing like for example,
get elements by class name is maybe also
helpful mnemonic to remember what you're
trying to do here.
So whichever you're more
comfortable with is totally valid.
You have lots of options,
this is generally true in JavaScript there
is usually not just one way to do things
there's usually 8000
different ways to do things.
So everybody who writes JavaScript
kind of develops their own feel for
how they like to write it and
it's a adventure.
There are sometimes advantages and
disadvantages which we can talk
about throughout the course.
And in general in our JavaScript lives,
we'll discover as we go.
But there are lots of different
ways to do the same thing.
So just to prove that this works, we can
do document.query.SelectorAll, player.
And remember there's look at
these quotes around these things.
This is important because we're gonna talk
later about what that does in JavaScript.
But so, if we put in quotes the the name
of an element that gives us all those
elements dot and then the name of a class
gives us all the classes hash and
the name of an Id gives us an Id etc.